---
layout: post
title: 'GSoC 2019: Week 5'
comments: true
tags: [gsoc, sympy]
categories: [open-source]
seo:
  date_modified: 2020-01-11 18:06:59 +0530
---
With this the fifth week of the official coding period has ended. I will try to give a brief summary of my work during this week.

I spent most of this week learning the inner working of **satask** module. It took a lot of debugging to understand the on-going processes efficiently 😅 . My major job was to reduce the unwanted slowing portions in the code. I had  [#11789](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/11789) for reference. Some of such performance reducing portions of code were:
* A major segment of code was creating **And** objects unnecessarily. As suggested in [#17087](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/issues/17087) the sorting in the **And** constructor takes up a significant amount of time. These have to be reduced.
* Using SymPy objects is itself a bottleneck for performance. Having a system built over SymPy objects slows things down. Python's built-in types should be used as much as possible.
* A specific segment (used many times in the code) calls `rcall` over propositions. The `rcall` which is a recursive process also takes a significant of time.
* Also, I have tried to pre-compile results as much as possible.

With the above and some other changes, the overall performance of `satask` has improved much. I have made a PR over this [#17144](https://github.com/sympy/sympy/pull/17144). For an instance,
<table style="padding:15px;">
    <thead>
        <th>Tests</th>
        <th>After this PR</th>
        <th>In master</th>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>test_satask</td>
            <td>2.39 s</td>
            <td>36.26 s</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>assumptions/tests</td>
            <td>16.74 s</td>
            <td>127.21 s</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
<br />
There is still scope for improvement in performance. In the coming week, I will try to work these out. I will also try to improve the performance of **ask** module.

Also, the first evaluations are over now and I feel happy to announce that I passed it. During the first phase I learnt a lot. In last few weeks I got to explore profiling and got to understand how small segments can influence performance. Before this I felt that I already know the codebase, but in reality I had much to explore. My mentors always gave me a good starting point and a direction over the course of this phase. With the hope to work much better in the coming phases, I take your leave now 😄 .
